README.md, before:

# **Relax trivia game**

The goal of this game is for people to test their knowledge on 4 different subjects and have fun while doing it. The website is aimed at people who are curious about history, geography, movies, and literature 

You can view the live website [here](https://shoshie-coding.github.io/Relax-trivia-game-JavaScript/).

![Amiresponsive screenshot](assets/images/ami-responsive-screenshot.png) 


## **Features**
### **Existing Features**
- **Homepage and navigation menu** 
The Homepage features the Play game and scores buttons. 
The header image provides visual stimulation and sets the color theme for the whole website. This theme is present on all the pages of the website providing consistency for the users. 
The navigation menu is present on all website pages, it allows users to navigate to the Homepage, Category page and Scores page which are the pages of interest for the user. 
The burger style navigation menu is small enough and seamless enough for the user to access all main pages.

![Header image and nav bar screenshot](assets/images/feature-header-nav-bar-screenshot.png) 

- **Pick a category page**
This page allows the user to pick a category they want to start the game with.
There are 4 distinct categories



- The **main heading and image** introduce the user to the Hebrew language and the theme of the website. 
![Main heading and image](assets/images/feature-main-heading-image.png)

- The **main points menu** on the Home and Alphabet pages provides a summary of what is discussed on each of these pages and links to those sections.
![Main points home page](assets/images/feature-main-points-home.png)
![Main points home page](assets/images/feature-main-points-alphabet.png)

- The **alphabet table** that lists all the letters of the Hebrew alphabet with their pronunciation which is responsive and easy to read on small screen sizes. 
![Alphabet table](assets/images/feature-alphabet-table.png) 

- The **listening and speaking** practice section on the Alphabet page with links to YouTube videos. 
![Main points home page](assets/images/feature-listening-speaking.png)

- The **two images sorrounded by content** on the Common Hebrew Phrases page
![First image words page](assets/images/feature-first-image-words-page.png)
![Second image words page](assets/images/feature-second-image-words-page.png)

- The **footer** that is visible on all pagesa and contains links to social media accounts and copyrights info. 
![Footer](assets/images/feature-footer.png)

### **Features left to implement**
- Contact page - we want to implement a contact page for users to contact the page for info on Hebrew language and civilization and for Hebrew classes we are organising regularly.
- Resource page with info on audio and video resources people can use to learn Hebrew language and articles.

## Design
- ### **Color Theme and imagery**
[Adobe Color](https://color.adobe.com/create/color-wheel) was used to extract the main three colors of the website: blue, cream and dark brown. The colors were extracted using images on the website. These are old Hebrew manuscripts and Hebrew illuminated manuscripts that show the beauty of the Hebrew alphabet and Jewish art. 

- ### **Typography**
For the main text, 'Montserrat' font is used with a fall-back on sans-serif. For headings, navigation bar and footer, 'Arima Madurai' font is used with a fallback on cursive.

## **Technologies**
#### **Languages Used**
- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5) 
- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS)
#### **Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used**

1. [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) was used to import fonts 'Montserrat'and 'Arima Madurai' that are used throughout the website. 

2. [Adobe color](https://color.adobe.com/mythemes) was used to extract the colors used on the website. 
3. [Git](https://git-scm.com/) was used to used to edit the code on the Gitpod terminal, to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.

4. [GitHub](https://github.com/) is used to store the project code after being pushed from Git. 

## **Testing**
### **Validator Testing**

#### HTML code validator 
The website passed all code validations
![HTML code validator](assets/images/html-validator-index.png)
![HTML code validator](assets/images/html-validator-alphabet.png)
![HTML code validator](assets/images/html-validator-words.png)

#### CSS code validator
![HTML code validator index page](assets/images/css-validator-index.png)
![HTML code validator alphabet page](assets/images/css-validator-alphabet.png)
![HTML code validator words page](assets/images/css-validator-words.png)

#### Lighthouse report
The website passed the Lighthouse report for all pages
![Lighthouse report index page](assets/images/lighthouse-index.png)
![Lighthouse report alphabet page](assets/images/lighthouse-alphabet.png)
![Lighthouse report words page](assets/images/lighthouse-words.png)


### **Responsiveness Test**
- I used media queries to make my website responsive and can confirm that the website is responsive on all the screen sizes and devices I used as well as various browsers as listed below. 

### **Browser compatibility**
- I tested my website on various browsers and screen sizes as shown below. The website works well and is responsive on monitors and laptop screens. 
- I also tested the website using Chrome dev tools device toolbar, by adjusting the size of the window and by selecting the pre-set devices available there. 
- All links are clickable and open in a new tab. 
- Pictures resize accurately and are clear, nor blurry or pixelated. 

#### Browsers
- Chrome
- Microsoft Edge 
- Internet Explorer
- Mozilla Firefox
- Safari

#### Devices:
- Desktop
- Laptop
- Samsung S10 Plus
- Huawei P30
- iPhone 8
- iPhone XS
- Samsung tablet
- Lenovo tablet

### **Bugs** 
#### **Known Bug - header image on home page not displayed on tablet**
- I manually tested this on a Lenovo tablet and a Samsung one, the header image on the Home page is not displaying. I cannot see this issue in Chrome in Dev tools, therefore at the moment I don't have a way to find a fix for this. 

#### **Hebrew letters issue**
- When trying to validate my HTML code with W3C, Hebrew letters were not recognized as I was using vowels with them.
 - I added attribute lang="he to the heading as per this [W3.org article](https://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-html-language-declarations)

- It didn't help fix the issue. I removed the vowels and it worked. There are limitations with adding several languages in the same code, there are a few options available out there but I didn't find viable solutions. 

#### **Browser is adding white margins on the sides** 
- This is a known bug for many browsers
- I searched online and found this [Stack Overflow article](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4612307/website-has-strange-whitespace-on-right-side-of-the-page-when-the-browser-is-res) that is taken from [Wernull blog](https://blog.wernull.com/2013/04/debug-ghost-css-elements-causing-unwanted-scrolling/)

- I applied the troubleshoorung steps:
  1. Implement the code at the end of the CSS file
  ```css
  * {
    background: #000 !important;
    color: #0f0 !important;
    outline: solid #f00 1px !important;
  }
  ```
  2. Go to the website and refresh.
  3. Notice the white spaces on the margin - open inspect.
  4. The rule set by user agent style sheet sets margin to 8px.
  5. Notice I cannot test and change the margin on dev tools.
  6. Search online and find out that this refers to the default styles that browsers apply to web pages.
  7. Go to CSS files and remove code from step 1.
  8. Add margin and set it to 0.
  9. Refresh website and notice it fixed the issue - margin is not showing anymore. 
#### **Hover border**
  I removed the navigation bar hover border on screens smaller than 535px as it didn't fit the smaller screens. 

## **Deployment**
### GitHub Pages
The project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the following steps:
1. Go to GitHub and locate the repository to be deployed [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Shoshie-coding/project-1)
2. On the top right-hand side - click Settings
3. Scroll down until you locate the Pages tab on the left-hand side navigation menu. 
4. Under Source - click on the drop-down called None and select Main and leave the /(root) option as it is. 
5. Click Save 
6.  The Page refreshes itself - message " Your site is ready to be published at https://shoshie-coding.github.io/project-1/. 
7. Refresh page - notice message -  Your site is published at https://shoshie-coding.github.io/project-1/. 

### Clone a repository using these steps:
1. On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.

2. Above the list of files, click the Code button.
3. To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "Clone with HTTPS", click the clone symbol. To clone the repository using an SSH key, including a certificate issued by your organization's SSH certificate authority, click Use SSH, then click the clone symbol next to it. To clone a repository using GitHub CLI, click Use GitHub CLI, then click the same clone symbol .
4. Open Git Bash and change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory.

5. Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied earlier.

6. You will see a message confirmation that the command was successul. 


## **Credits**

### **Content**
The following resources were used as sources of information and inspiration for the content on my website:

- [Hebrew-English and English-Hebrew dictionary](https://www.morfix.co.il/en/) - this online dictionary was used mainly to translate words and to add them in Hebrew letters. 

- [Hebrew Language - Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hebrew_language) - this article contains info on the Hebrew language and history. 

- [Encyclopaedia Britannica](https://www.britannica.com/topic/Hebrew-language) - this offers a short intro to the Hebrew language.

- [The Times of Israel article](https://blogs.timesofisrael.com/basic-hebrew-phrases-and-slang-you-should-know-in-israel/) with info on Israeli slang words. 

### **Media**
Some pictures on my website are not from royalty free websites. This is a student website, my project is for educational purposes only. If I decide to make this a commercial website, I will change the pictures. The pictures are listed below in order of appearance on the website.

- [Header image on Home page - free download from Unspash](https://unsplash.com/photos/xUXGHzhIbN4)

- Image of a Dead Sea Scrolls manuscript - [Lingualift](https://www.lingualift.com/blog/how-to-learn-hebrew-alphabet/) credited to [Facsimile finder](https://www.facsimilefinder.com/)

- [Lingualift](https://www.lingualift.com/blog/how-to-learn-hebrew-alphabet/) - Image of a medieval decorated text credited to [ [The Jewish Museum] (https://thejewishmuseum.org/)
- [Picture of Hebrew vowels](https://omniglot.com/writing/hebrew.htm) 

- [Yeshiva University Museum](https://www.yumuseum.org/programs/2019/09/08/art-workshop-new-years-cards-in-the-style-of-illuminated-hebrew-manuscripts) - picture with the word 'Shalom' in Hebrew. 

- Picture of a Hebrew text - free download from [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/eQ2Z9ay9Wws)

### **Code**
- Inspiration for the table on the Alphabet page came from [W3 Schools article](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_table_style.asp)

- [W3 Schools article on pseudo-classes and link styling](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_pseudo_classes.asp).

- [Article on how to design tables per per UX design rules](https://www.uxmatters.com/mt/archives/2020/07/designing-mobile-tables.php)

## Acknowledgements
My mentor for feedback and guiding me throughout the process and everyone at Code Institute who provided helpful tips along the way.  





























Welcome Cristina Onea,

This is the Code Institute student template for Gitpod. We have preinstalled all of the tools you need to get started. It's perfectly ok to use this template as the basis for your project submissions.

You can safely delete this README.md file, or change it for your own project. Please do read it at least once, though! It contains some important information about Gitpod and the extensions we use. Some of this information has been updated since the video content was created. The last update to this file was: **September 1, 2021**

## Gitpod Reminders

To run a frontend (HTML, CSS, Javascript only) application in Gitpod, in the terminal, type:

`python3 -m http.server`

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

To run a backend Python file, type `python3 app.py`, if your Python file is named `app.py` of course.

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

In Gitpod you have superuser security privileges by default. Therefore you do not need to use the `sudo` (superuser do) command in the bash terminal in any of the lessons.

To log into the Heroku toolbelt CLI:

1. Log in to your Heroku account and go to *Account Settings* in the menu under your avatar.
2. Scroll down to the *API Key* and click *Reveal*
3. Copy the key
4. In Gitpod, from the terminal, run `heroku_config`
5. Paste in your API key when asked

You can now use the `heroku` CLI program - try running `heroku apps` to confirm it works. This API key is unique and private to you so do not share it. If you accidentally make it public then you can create a new one with _Regenerate API Key_.

------

## Release History

We continually tweak and adjust this template to help give you the best experience. Here is the version history:

**September 1 2021:** Remove `PGHOSTADDR` environment variable.

**July 19 2021:** Remove `font_fix` script now that the terminal font issue is fixed.

**July 2 2021:** Remove extensions that are not available in Open VSX.

**June 30 2021:** Combined the P4 and P5 templates into one file, added the uptime script. See the FAQ at the end of this file.

**June 10 2021:** Added: `font_fix` script and alias to fix the Terminal font issue

**May 10 2021:** Added `heroku_config` script to allow Heroku API key to be stored as an environment variable.

**April 7 2021:** Upgraded the template for VS Code instead of Theia.

**October 21 2020:** Versions of the HTMLHint, Prettier, Bootstrap4 CDN and Auto Close extensions updated. The Python extension needs to stay the same version for now.

**October 08 2020:** Additional large Gitpod files (`core.mongo*` and `core.python*`) are now hidden in the Explorer, and have been added to the `.gitignore` by default.

**September 22 2020:** Gitpod occasionally creates large `core.Microsoft` files. These are now hidden in the Explorer. A `.gitignore` file has been created to make sure these files will not be committed, along with other common files.

**April 16 2020:** The template now automatically installs MySQL instead of relying on the Gitpod MySQL image. The message about a Python linter not being installed has been dealt with, and the set-up files are now hidden in the Gitpod file explorer.

**April 13 2020:** Added the _Prettier_ code beautifier extension instead of the code formatter built-in to Gitpod.

**February 2020:** The initialisation files now _do not_ auto-delete. They will remain in your project. You can safely ignore them. They just make sure that your workspace is configured correctly each time you open it. It will also prevent the Gitpod configuration popup from appearing.

**December 2019:** Added Eventyret's Bootstrap 4 extension. Type `!bscdn` in a HTML file to add the Bootstrap boilerplate. Check out the <a href="https://github.com/Eventyret/vscode-bcdn" target="_blank">README.md file at the official repo</a> for more options.

------

## FAQ about the uptime script

**Why have you added this script?**

It will help us to calculate how many running workspaces there are at any one time, which greatly helps us with cost and capacity planning. It will help us decide on the future direction of our cloud-based IDE strategy.

**How will this affect me?**

For everyday usage of Gitpod, it doesn’t have any effect at all. The script only captures the following data:

- An ID that is randomly generated each time the workspace is started.
- The current date and time
- The workspace status of “started” or “running”, which is sent every 5 minutes.

It is not possible for us or anyone else to trace the random ID back to an individual, and no personal data is being captured. It will not slow down the workspace or affect your work.

**So….?**

We want to tell you this so that we are being completely transparent about the data we collect and what we do with it.

**Can I opt out?**

Yes, you can. Since no personally identifiable information is being captured, we'd appreciate it if you let the script run; however if you are unhappy with the idea, simply run the following commands from the terminal window after creating the workspace, and this will remove the uptime script:

```
pkill uptime.sh
rm .vscode/uptime.sh
```

**Anything more?**

Yes! We'd strongly encourage you to look at the source code of the `uptime.sh` file so that you know what it's doing. As future software developers, it will be great practice to see how these shell scripts work.

---

Happy coding!

Commit message:

Fill in the readme file documentation - features and design

README.md, after:

# **Relax trivia game**

The goal of this game is for people to test their knowledge on 4 different subjects and have fun while doing it. The website is aimed at people who are curious about history, geography, movies, and literature 

You can view the live website [here](https://shoshie-coding.github.io/Relax-trivia-game-JavaScript/).

![Amiresponsive screenshot](assets/images/ami-responsive-screenshot.png) 


## **Features**
### **Existing Features**
- **Homepage play and scores buttons** 
The Homepage features the Play game and scores buttons. This welcomes the user when they first acccess the website and it provides a segway to the actual game. 

![Main page screenshot](assets/images/homepage-screenshot.png) 

- **Navigation menu and footer**
The navigation menu and footer are present on all website pages. They allow users to navigate to the Homepage, Category page and Scores page which are the pages of interest for the user. These have the same color to allow the user not be distracted by the styling but be focused on the game. 

![Header and footer screenhot](assets/images/header-footer-screenshot.png) 

- **Pick a category page**
This page allows the user to pick a category they want to start the game with. There are 4 distinct categories to chose from: history, literature, geography and movies. These are represented by 4 images with similar color pallette that provide a smooth transition into the game. 

![Category page](assets/images/category-page-screenshot.png) 

- **The game page**
This is where the users can play the game and answer the trivia questions. It features an area on the top that displays question counter and the score, it shows the user the questions they need to answer and 4 options to chose from.
When the user answers correctly, the correct option turns green. When the user's answer is incorrect, their selection turns red and the correct selection turns green. 

![Game page](assets/images/game-page-screenshot.png)

- **The scores page and end game page**
The game is designed to store up to 5 scores the users can access from the main homepage as well as from the navigation menu. When the game is finished the users can add a name so the game can be stored in local storage. 

![Scores page](assets/images/scores-page-screenshot.png)
![End page](assets/images/end-page-screenshot.png)


### **Features left to implement**
- Currently the questions are fetched automatically from the game.js file where they are stored. For the sake of this website, we've only added 5 questions per each category but in the future, a goos feature to implement is to fetch questions directly from an API trivia game database which will allow us more questions to the game. 

## Design
- ### **Color Theme and imagery**
[Adobe Color](https://color.adobe.com/create/color-wheel) was used to extract the color theme for the website.
The colors were extracted using the 4 images on the website. This provides consistency all throughout the website. 

- ### **Typography**
'Scheherazade New' style is used on the whole website, with a fall-back on serif.

## **Technologies**
#### **Languages Used**
- [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTML5) 
- [CSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSS)
- [JavaScript](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript) 

#### **Frameworks, Libraries & Programs Used**

1. [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) was used to import the font 'Scheherazade New'.

2. [Adobe color](https://color.adobe.com/mythemes) was used to extract the colors used on the website. 
3. [Git](https://git-scm.com/) was used to used to edit the code on the Gitpod terminal, to commit to Git and Push to GitHub.

4. [GitHub](https://github.com/) is used to store the project code after being pushed from Git. 

## **Testing**
### **Validator Testing**

#### HTML code validator 
The website passed all code validations
![HTML code validator](assets/images/html-validator-index.png)
![HTML code validator](assets/images/html-validator-alphabet.png)
![HTML code validator](assets/images/html-validator-words.png)

#### CSS code validator
![HTML code validator index page](assets/images/css-validator-index.png)
![HTML code validator alphabet page](assets/images/css-validator-alphabet.png)
![HTML code validator words page](assets/images/css-validator-words.png)

#### Lighthouse report
The website passed the Lighthouse report for all pages
![Lighthouse report index page](assets/images/lighthouse-index.png)
![Lighthouse report alphabet page](assets/images/lighthouse-alphabet.png)
![Lighthouse report words page](assets/images/lighthouse-words.png)


### **Responsiveness Test**
- I used media queries to make my website responsive and can confirm that the website is responsive on all the screen sizes and devices I used as well as various browsers as listed below. 

### **Browser compatibility**
- I tested my website on various browsers and screen sizes as shown below. The website works well and is responsive on monitors and laptop screens. 
- I also tested the website using Chrome dev tools device toolbar, by adjusting the size of the window and by selecting the pre-set devices available there. 
- All links are clickable and open in a new tab. 
- Pictures resize accurately and are clear, nor blurry or pixelated. 

#### Browsers
- Chrome
- Microsoft Edge 
- Internet Explorer
- Mozilla Firefox
- Safari

#### Devices:
- Desktop
- Laptop
- Samsung S10 Plus
- Huawei P30
- iPhone 8
- iPhone XS
- Samsung tablet
- Lenovo tablet

### **Bugs** 
#### **Known Bug - header image on home page not displayed on tablet**
- I manually tested this on a Lenovo tablet and a Samsung one, the header image on the Home page is not displaying. I cannot see this issue in Chrome in Dev tools, therefore at the moment I don't have a way to find a fix for this. 

#### **Hebrew letters issue**
- When trying to validate my HTML code with W3C, Hebrew letters were not recognized as I was using vowels with them.
 - I added attribute lang="he to the heading as per this [W3.org article](https://www.w3.org/International/questions/qa-html-language-declarations)

- It didn't help fix the issue. I removed the vowels and it worked. There are limitations with adding several languages in the same code, there are a few options available out there but I didn't find viable solutions. 

#### **Browser is adding white margins on the sides** 
- This is a known bug for many browsers
- I searched online and found this [Stack Overflow article](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4612307/website-has-strange-whitespace-on-right-side-of-the-page-when-the-browser-is-res) that is taken from [Wernull blog](https://blog.wernull.com/2013/04/debug-ghost-css-elements-causing-unwanted-scrolling/)

- I applied the troubleshoorung steps:
  1. Implement the code at the end of the CSS file
  ```css
  * {
    background: #000 !important;
    color: #0f0 !important;
    outline: solid #f00 1px !important;
  }
  ```
  2. Go to the website and refresh.
  3. Notice the white spaces on the margin - open inspect.
  4. The rule set by user agent style sheet sets margin to 8px.
  5. Notice I cannot test and change the margin on dev tools.
  6. Search online and find out that this refers to the default styles that browsers apply to web pages.
  7. Go to CSS files and remove code from step 1.
  8. Add margin and set it to 0.
  9. Refresh website and notice it fixed the issue - margin is not showing anymore. 
#### **Hover border**
  I removed the navigation bar hover border on screens smaller than 535px as it didn't fit the smaller screens. 

## **Deployment**
### GitHub Pages
The project was deployed to GitHub Pages using the following steps:
1. Go to GitHub and locate the repository to be deployed [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Shoshie-coding/project-1)
2. On the top right-hand side - click Settings
3. Scroll down until you locate the Pages tab on the left-hand side navigation menu. 
4. Under Source - click on the drop-down called None and select Main and leave the /(root) option as it is. 
5. Click Save 
6.  The Page refreshes itself - message " Your site is ready to be published at https://shoshie-coding.github.io/project-1/. 
7. Refresh page - notice message -  Your site is published at https://shoshie-coding.github.io/project-1/. 

### Clone a repository using these steps:
1. On GitHub, navigate to the main page of the repository.

2. Above the list of files, click the Code button.
3. To clone the repository using HTTPS, under "Clone with HTTPS", click the clone symbol. To clone the repository using an SSH key, including a certificate issued by your organization's SSH certificate authority, click Use SSH, then click the clone symbol next to it. To clone a repository using GitHub CLI, click Use GitHub CLI, then click the same clone symbol .
4. Open Git Bash and change the current working directory to the location where you want the cloned directory.

5. Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied earlier.

6. You will see a message confirmation that the command was successul. 


## **Credits**

### **Content**
The following resources were used as sources of information and inspiration for the content on my website:

- [Hebrew-English and English-Hebrew dictionary](https://www.morfix.co.il/en/) - this online dictionary was used mainly to translate words and to add them in Hebrew letters. 

- [Hebrew Language - Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hebrew_language) - this article contains info on the Hebrew language and history. 

- [Encyclopaedia Britannica](https://www.britannica.com/topic/Hebrew-language) - this offers a short intro to the Hebrew language.

- [The Times of Israel article](https://blogs.timesofisrael.com/basic-hebrew-phrases-and-slang-you-should-know-in-israel/) with info on Israeli slang words. 

### **Media**
Some pictures on my website are not from royalty free websites. This is a student website, my project is for educational purposes only. If I decide to make this a commercial website, I will change the pictures. The pictures are listed below in order of appearance on the website.

- [Header image on Home page - free download from Unspash](https://unsplash.com/photos/xUXGHzhIbN4)

- Image of a Dead Sea Scrolls manuscript - [Lingualift](https://www.lingualift.com/blog/how-to-learn-hebrew-alphabet/) credited to [Facsimile finder](https://www.facsimilefinder.com/)

- [Lingualift](https://www.lingualift.com/blog/how-to-learn-hebrew-alphabet/) - Image of a medieval decorated text credited to [ [The Jewish Museum] (https://thejewishmuseum.org/)
- [Picture of Hebrew vowels](https://omniglot.com/writing/hebrew.htm) 

- [Yeshiva University Museum](https://www.yumuseum.org/programs/2019/09/08/art-workshop-new-years-cards-in-the-style-of-illuminated-hebrew-manuscripts) - picture with the word 'Shalom' in Hebrew. 

- Picture of a Hebrew text - free download from [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/photos/eQ2Z9ay9Wws)

### **Code**
- Inspiration for the table on the Alphabet page came from [W3 Schools article](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_table_style.asp)

- [W3 Schools article on pseudo-classes and link styling](https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_pseudo_classes.asp).

- [Article on how to design tables per per UX design rules](https://www.uxmatters.com/mt/archives/2020/07/designing-mobile-tables.php)

## Acknowledgements
My mentor for feedback and guiding me throughout the process and everyone at Code Institute who provided helpful tips along the way.  





























Welcome Cristina Onea,

This is the Code Institute student template for Gitpod. We have preinstalled all of the tools you need to get started. It's perfectly ok to use this template as the basis for your project submissions.

You can safely delete this README.md file, or change it for your own project. Please do read it at least once, though! It contains some important information about Gitpod and the extensions we use. Some of this information has been updated since the video content was created. The last update to this file was: **September 1, 2021**

## Gitpod Reminders

To run a frontend (HTML, CSS, Javascript only) application in Gitpod, in the terminal, type:

`python3 -m http.server`

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

To run a backend Python file, type `python3 app.py`, if your Python file is named `app.py` of course.

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

In Gitpod you have superuser security privileges by default. Therefore you do not need to use the `sudo` (superuser do) command in the bash terminal in any of the lessons.

To log into the Heroku toolbelt CLI:

1. Log in to your Heroku account and go to *Account Settings* in the menu under your avatar.
2. Scroll down to the *API Key* and click *Reveal*
3. Copy the key
4. In Gitpod, from the terminal, run `heroku_config`
5. Paste in your API key when asked

You can now use the `heroku` CLI program - try running `heroku apps` to confirm it works. This API key is unique and private to you so do not share it. If you accidentally make it public then you can create a new one with _Regenerate API Key_.

------

## Release History

We continually tweak and adjust this template to help give you the best experience. Here is the version history:

**September 1 2021:** Remove `PGHOSTADDR` environment variable.

**July 19 2021:** Remove `font_fix` script now that the terminal font issue is fixed.

**July 2 2021:** Remove extensions that are not available in Open VSX.

**June 30 2021:** Combined the P4 and P5 templates into one file, added the uptime script. See the FAQ at the end of this file.

**June 10 2021:** Added: `font_fix` script and alias to fix the Terminal font issue

**May 10 2021:** Added `heroku_config` script to allow Heroku API key to be stored as an environment variable.

**April 7 2021:** Upgraded the template for VS Code instead of Theia.

**October 21 2020:** Versions of the HTMLHint, Prettier, Bootstrap4 CDN and Auto Close extensions updated. The Python extension needs to stay the same version for now.

**October 08 2020:** Additional large Gitpod files (`core.mongo*` and `core.python*`) are now hidden in the Explorer, and have been added to the `.gitignore` by default.

**September 22 2020:** Gitpod occasionally creates large `core.Microsoft` files. These are now hidden in the Explorer. A `.gitignore` file has been created to make sure these files will not be committed, along with other common files.

**April 16 2020:** The template now automatically installs MySQL instead of relying on the Gitpod MySQL image. The message about a Python linter not being installed has been dealt with, and the set-up files are now hidden in the Gitpod file explorer.

**April 13 2020:** Added the _Prettier_ code beautifier extension instead of the code formatter built-in to Gitpod.

**February 2020:** The initialisation files now _do not_ auto-delete. They will remain in your project. You can safely ignore them. They just make sure that your workspace is configured correctly each time you open it. It will also prevent the Gitpod configuration popup from appearing.

**December 2019:** Added Eventyret's Bootstrap 4 extension. Type `!bscdn` in a HTML file to add the Bootstrap boilerplate. Check out the <a href="https://github.com/Eventyret/vscode-bcdn" target="_blank">README.md file at the official repo</a> for more options.

------

## FAQ about the uptime script

**Why have you added this script?**

It will help us to calculate how many running workspaces there are at any one time, which greatly helps us with cost and capacity planning. It will help us decide on the future direction of our cloud-based IDE strategy.

**How will this affect me?**

For everyday usage of Gitpod, it doesn’t have any effect at all. The script only captures the following data:

- An ID that is randomly generated each time the workspace is started.
- The current date and time
- The workspace status of “started” or “running”, which is sent every 5 minutes.

It is not possible for us or anyone else to trace the random ID back to an individual, and no personal data is being captured. It will not slow down the workspace or affect your work.

**So….?**

We want to tell you this so that we are being completely transparent about the data we collect and what we do with it.

**Can I opt out?**

Yes, you can. Since no personally identifiable information is being captured, we'd appreciate it if you let the script run; however if you are unhappy with the idea, simply run the following commands from the terminal window after creating the workspace, and this will remove the uptime script:

```
pkill uptime.sh
rm .vscode/uptime.sh
```

**Anything more?**

Yes! We'd strongly encourage you to look at the source code of the `uptime.sh` file so that you know what it's doing. As future software developers, it will be great practice to see how these shell scripts work.

---

Happy coding!
